<div class="col col--main">

# Inattention At Scale

##A cold dusk rolls down over the city as the echos of a thousand missed goodbyes arc around the brain, between cochlear nerve and grey matter, spooking the circuitry, synapses belching confused half-responses, ghost within the machine within the ghost.

The loneliness of 2015 is nothing new, nor is the sense of displacement, but there's a definitive sense of newness in the widening micro-balkanization that comes as part of the all-encompassing mobile communication parcels that we purchase with increasing regularity and widening purview.

The promise of never being alone, never being without information, or never being lost has delivered emptiness, vanishingly weak social ties, cliques in the ethereal cloud that may only last as long as a service provider is around to deliver the content. If this was a railroad, the rail ties might positively be constructed on demand, but negatively may lead to nowhere or de-materialize hazardously while in transit.

The alarming thing here is the lack of alarm raised by issues such as increasing concentration of digital ownership into the hands of the few, while the engines of content-production and audience-acquisition are increasingly "the people" in the post-mass (not typed here, but capital _M_) media age. Content _production_ is more democratized than ever in that anyone can produce increasingly-high-production-value content, but content _ownership_ is more smilingly despotic than ever in that ownership is sometimes legally revoked from content-producers, or at the very least, most content-producers do not share in the massive profits made possible by the content that they produce.

Awareness of the problem of digital ownership _does_ seem to happen at critical points of noticeable loss-of-quality, which may manifest through any number of ways (e.g. citizens being over-advertised-to, citizens detecting feature changes that seem to revoke agency and clarity of service). This awareness triggers diaspora which is a key mechanism in the balkanization cycle.

</div>

<div class="col">

---

The diaspora mechanism leads citizen-objects to new services. Citizen uptake in this phase is mediated by service production quality and perceived-nearness to source-of-flight. Combined with the privatization of APIs, this creates fractally smaller-and-smaller spaces. Furthermore, the digital-social space is theoretically as broad and fragmentable [as there are addressable devices](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPv6), or even (more explosively) [paths](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Path_%28computing%29) on devices. [^1]

In other words, there is potentially infinitely expanding space, much like the universe. As we balkanize, we grow distant from each other, becoming motionlessness, distant celestial bodies with no energy remaining by which to return to positive exchange.

A potential explaining factor for this micro-expansion is that the space necessary to express notions and store information is getting smaller and becoming increasingly fast-to-access. The upper bound for expansion may be tied to _Moore's Law_ or some other discoverable mechanism (if the upper-bound can truly be expressed at all).

</div>

<div class="col">

One point of hope toward a  continued _positive-effects_ expansion is the notion that this microexpansion isn't a mechanism of physical law and that the people have agency around the direction and speed of the expansion.

In other words, agents have the power to say things like _"Let's turn this thing around as quickly as possible. That pathway looks dangerous."_ Or, _"The course is looking good."_

This agency would scrub speed from the micro-expansion scenario that would otherwise leave it hurtling toward something like the grim _Heat Death_ state that physicists suggest The Universe at large will reach at the end of an unfathomably long future timeframe.

---

Unlike matters of digital ownership, attention &mdash; inverse to space-expansion &mdash; in the current era has dropped without a corresponding awakening to the fleecing. Attention is critical to developing agency, so the _positive-effects_ model is left jeopardized.

Here's to hoping that the attention spans of the people fall so far through the floor that they have no choice but to be passed back down to us through the ceiling.

</div>

[^1]: Sites like [tilde club](http://tilde.club) resurrect the early web's common use of paths as separate locations.
