# Managing Email

Email can be challenging. But mastering it can transform your life and
your ability to engage with what really matters.

The deck is so fucking unfairly stacked against us when it comes to email
that if you sit back and think about it, you'll go crazy. So don't do that.

Instead, try the following strategies for handling email.

---

## Unsubscribe Liberally, Clean Vigorously

If you get a handful of emails a day that are just sales/offers from a business
that you don't intend to buy stuff from, get on their unsubscribe list.
While you're at it, search your inbox for other messages from same list and
delete those too. You want to treat the inbox as a place of work, a place that
can be reasoned about. There's no sense or path forward in attempting to reason
about expired sales and the like.

## Use Rules/Filters

Now that you've removed the noisiest offenders (e.g. marketing messages,
"we've missed you" auto-mailers for things that you don't care about),
you can go a level deeper: create rules to make the remaining mailings
make more sense. If you know that every day you'll open your email to fifty
automated notifications regarding other people's work status, and maybe between
zero and two related to your own, maybe you should consider writing a filter so
that the other people's stuff goes to a separate folder, but stuff related to
you goes to the inbox.

Everyone is different, but you want to find your way to a sense of comfort
that all of the emails are in the right place - the stuff that is most important
stays front-and-center, and the other things fall to the periphery, further so
the less critical they are to your work and decision-making.

## Archive Aggressively

You want to treat the inbox as a place of work, a list of things that
can be reasoned about. Anything that requires no work or reckoning should be
archived. You can find it if you need it, but until then, it's away from the
'workspace'.

---

## Action Appropriately

Once you have appropriately pared down the inbox to things that you need to
care about, you can commit yourself to treating the inbox like work. This means
responding (or otherwise performing some action/work) where necessary and then
archiving once that work has been completed.

People will say _"I have seen such a change in Pat![^1] I wonder what happened!
Pat is just really responsive and gets things done."_


[^1]: "Pat" because the name is pretty neutral, innit?
